ben shapiro you're followed by millions
of people online and on social media
you're one of the biggest names in
American conservatism what is it you
think you're tapping into well I think
that there are a couple of things one
there is actually a hunger for different
ideas the the monolithic nature of the
United States media is pretty evident in
terms of its politics people tend to
agree on essentially the liberal point
of view and increasingly a radical
leftist point of view in the media and
obviously I speak to in response to that
at the same time I try to provide an
honest take on the issues of the day and
that means that I am not beholden to the
Republican Party for example it means
that I'm going to speak out whenever I
think that a principle is being violated
just no matter who is doing the
violation you work for the right-wing
Breitbart website that you left over
it's support for Donald Trump and I
think you said you'd never vote for mr.
Trump why is that well in 2015 2016 the
Breitbart made a hard turn in favor of
one particular candidate and that's
their prerogative lots of publications
have an editorial point of view and
Breitbart was one of those the reason
that I left Breitbart specifically was
because it was because of an incident in
which a Breitbart reporter a female
reporter was grabbed on the arm by Corey
Lewandowski than the campaign manager
for president Trump and was bruised on
the arm and then Corey Lewandowski
proceeded to lie about it in Breitbart
proceeded to throw its own reporter
under the bus suggest that she was lying
or making this up and at that point I
determined that I could no longer work
for a publication that wasn't even
willing to stand up for its own
reporters and instead would throw those
reporters under the bus in favor of a
candidate that had sought to back
haven't you lost you battle for the
Republican Party though isn't the
Republican Party now the party of Trump
no I mean I think that the Republican
Party is always the party of whomever is
the president technically speaking but
in terms of who are the sort of the
thought leaders inside the conservative
movement who are the people who are
driving a lot of the discussion inside
the conservative movement I don't think
that's correct at all I think that most
Republicans see President Trump is a
vehicle for their policy preferences but
that doesn't necessarily mean that they
agree with all of his personal foible or
the way that he behaves or the things
that he says and I think a lot of
Republicans responds in anger to the
media attacking President Trump mainly
out of
a reactionary and half appropriate upset
that the media seem to have a double
standard when it comes to covering
certain politicians I'm interested that
you think there's a thought movement
inside the Republican Party I mean half
of the Conservatives run out of IDs in
America all the new policies the
Medicare for all $15 minimum wage the
green you deal they're all coming from
the left and they're popular frank
fryman frankly I'm confused by the idea
that any of those are particularly new
ideas I mean most of those ideas have
been around since Franklin Delano
Roosevelt at the very earliest or at the
very latest rather some of them go all
the way back to Woodrow Wilson but the
idea the new ideas are absent in the
Republican Party is obviously untrue we
have a very strong debate that goes on
inside sort of the the conservative
halls of intelligentsia about what is
the appropriate action to take with
regard to the medical system should
global warming be considered a real
threat or should global warming be be
considered something that technology
will solve and if so what are the best
best aspects of solving that now there's
that there's a rich intellectual debate
on the right about nationalism versus
patriotism for example or populism
versus free-market tourism that debate
is happening on the right to sort of
suggest that the right in America is
bereft of ideas but the left is full of
ideas number one not all ideas are good
ideas I mean AOC is pretty good evidence
of that I'm a big fan of some old ideas
myself that I think are pretty good but
beyond that I think that it is it is
intellectual intellectual sneering of
the highest order to suggest that only
the left has new and decent ideas some
of the ideas that are popular in your
side of politics which seem to take us
back to the dark ages Georgia new
abortion laws which you are much in
favor of that a woman who miscarries
could get 30 years a georgian woman who
travels to another state for an abortion
procedure could get 10 years these are
extreme hard policies well okay a couple
of things one I'm not sure I mean
frankly I don't know whether you're
sitting are you an objective journalist
are you an opinion journalist I mustn't
ask questions okay so your inner a
supposedly objective journalist calling
policies with which you disagree
barbaric
acting only one side of the political
aisle knows ideas so I just want to
point out though I know we should at
least be honest in your own bias this is
your parenting in America is now so
polarized that on one program you only
have the left and another one you just
have the right my job is to question
those who have strong views and put an
alternative to them if you were an
anti-abortion person I would be putting
pro-abortion questions to you but you
are so my question sir sir I'm happy to
answer a question please answer this one
would you suggest would you suggest that
a late-term abortion is brutal I'm not
talking about more questions sir you
just suggested the pro-life position is
inherently brutal and terrible so I'm
asking you as an objective journalist
would you ask the same question to a
pro-choice advocate by calling their
action brutal and I'm asking you is that
why is it that a bill banning abortions
after a woman has been pregnant for six
weeks is not a return to the dark ages
what's your answer my answer is
something called science human life
exists at conception it ought to be
protected now back to my question to you
you purport to be an objective
journalist BBC purports to be an
objective down the middle network it
obviously is not it never has been and
you as a journalist our proceedings who
call one side of the political aisle
ignorant barbaric and sending us back to
the dark ages why don't you just say
that you're on the left it's so hard for
you why can't you just be honest this is
a it's a serious question
mr. Shapiro if you only knew how
ridiculous that statement is you
wouldn't have said it so let's move on
would you vote for there's the evident
from your own Trump would you vote for
mr. Trump in 2020 I'd certainly consider
voting for mr. Trump in 2020 just like
I'd consider voting for anybody else in
2020 but didn't you answer you'd never
vote for him I said that I wouldn't vote
for him in 2016 and then I wrote a
column for National Review explaining
the conditions under which I might
change my mind
you're a culture war warrior isn't he
largely on your side you you wrote once
it was unlikely he'd appoint
conservative judges to the Supreme Court
he has right you were wrong
until I met I like many of President
Trump's policies even if I still
have serious reservations about his
personality in character do you think
there's a Democrat that could be tuned
to 2020
sure I think there are several Democrats
who could beat him in 2020 who would
have the best chance
I think the Joe Biden is likely is to
beat him considering that he has
significant appeal in a lot of the Rust
Belt in places like Pennsylvania
Michigan Wisconsin the place that the
president Trump needs to wins retain the
presidency and Joe Biden also has a long
history in politics which means that the
American people already have sort of a
preconceived vision of him President
Trump as a campaigner is very good at
dragging unknowns through the mud or at
exposing details about people that are
previously sort of covered up but when
it comes to Joe Biden he's been well
exposed for a very long time most people
know him and he's not nearly as
unpopular even going in as Hillary
Clinton was in 2016 so if it was a close
race between mr. Biden and mr. Trump you
would for what you say I think probably
go for mr. Trump yes I would vote for
mr. Trump if it were a race between
Biden and Trump because I think that the
damage the president Trump has done to
the country on a character and
rhetorical level has already been done
and cannot be undone I don't see it as
getting worse day by day that is the new
status quo unfortunately now the
question becomes which policies I would
most like to see enacted and Trump's
policy preferences are closer to my own
than Joe Biden's are now you're a star
of new media conservative new media you
and others on the left and the right you
position yourself says suppose that tell
us of hard truths but haven't you all
just really coarsened public discourse
in America and the exacerbated its
divisions you know it's kind of odd to
be to be hearing about me corseting
public discourse when you call policies
you disagree with brutal and bringing us
back to the dark ages sir the point I
don't return to but the point was to put
a position for you to reply to it and I
thought we that's well I think some of
the points to because on your
characterization of issues is part of
the problem in the for sending a public
well maybe it's also part of your
problem too because we have from you
YouTube videos ben shapiro destroys the
abortion argument ben shapiro destroys
change it transgenderism and abortion is
that not a kind of course public
discourse well
are those videos labeled by me I have no
idea why are you picking out wire why
are you why are you I have a question
why are you picking out random YouTube
videos put up by people who are not me
are you reading the titles to me are you
unhappy with the way they've been
described I think that people can
describe me however they please it's a
free country and I'm all in favor of a
bubble of a public debate if you watch
the actual clips there are generally
civil conversations between me and
somebody who disagrees with me you say
in your new book oh you suggest that
America's largest struggle at the moment
is quote the struggle for our national
soul we are so angry at each other right
now and I think that's true I've just
returned from the United States but
aren't you part of the problem with the
way you go about your discourse not the
solution I think we can all do better in
our discourse but the fact that I've
reached out to so many people across the
aisle to have conversations with them is
pretty evidence the fact that I was
willing to walk from a publication that
was paying me money over principle is
pretty evidence the fact that I've
called out President Trump a member of a
party of which I am a member repeatedly
when I think that he has done things
that are immoral I think is decent
evidence that I'm looking at least for a
civil conversation well as you say in
your book you say that there's a credit
keyphrase we are so angry at each other
right now but as I say on you part of
that anger aren't you encouraging that
anger for example you just you described
mr. Obama's State of the Union address
in 2012 as fascist mentality in action
well I think that if you are one if you
want to argue with the characterization
and then we can talk about what exactly
his State of the Union address said is
it charged language in politics sure the
problem that I have is not with charge
language in politics which I'm generally
in favor of I like a robust public
debate and a very loud and and spirited
public debate I have no problem with
that whatsoever what I'm talking about
is the assumption that people with whom
we disagree politically are inherently
of bad character or in your words want
to bring us back to the dark ages but
again it was your description of the
State of the Union address in 2012 as
fascist the wording of the president
Trump's 2012 address was bad and wrong
that's over there plenty of things are
bad and wrong but it doesn't make them
fascist well I suppose that's true but
if
would like to again if you'd like to
read me the column out loud I suppose I
can critique it for you oh well again
with mr. Obama
you said June and you're Jewish yourself
I only mentioned that because food is in
context the Jews who vote for Obama are
by and large Jews and name only journals
you call them my statement was based on
the fact that Jews in the United States
as an ethnic group are largely
irreligious which is true by every
single poll Jews of the most irreligious
group in the United States as an
Orthodox Jew who actually takes Judaism
seriously the point that I'm making is
that most Jews who are ethnically Jewish
are not religiously Jewish in any
context no no the point you were making
is that Jews who vote for Obama are Jews
and namely only I said I said that yes
that is correct that Jews who voted for
Barack Obama a progenitor of the Iran
deal a person who was cracking down on
religious liberty a person who spent
much of his career as presidents of the
United States attempting to deprive
Israel of the necessities to defend
itself that that people Jews who voted
for President Obama by and large cared
about Judaism far less than they did
about other priorities did you said they
should return their badge in as a Jew
yes I believe that if you are a believer
are somebody who takes Judaism seriously
that comes along with ideological
ideological commitment I mean I guess
also I'm just I mean I mean I hope
you're having fun by the way going
through every old tweet that I've ever
sent to try and do gotcha questions but
if you'd like to have a discussion about
my general philosophy or things I've
done and say I don't know that's 2012 so
it's now 2019 if you'd like to discuss
something I've done and say like the
past five years why don't we do that
because you book is a criticism of how
angry America's and how America has to
do better and I'm sick I have an entire
list on my website sir sir panelists
have an entire website some of the
things you've said that seem to me to
help to stoke that anger for example you
said sure
Israelis like to build Arabs like to
bomb crap and live in open sewage well
as I say in an article entitled here's a
list of all the giant bad dumb things
I've ever said was that one don't but
yes that's a dumb tweet and not only a
but it is also important to mention that
the next few tweets clarified that sweet
is specifically referring to the komali
der ship
which by the way a BBC I've seen is
relatively reticent to condemn no I'd
say it wasn't what you went on to do and
say you are correct about the slurring
are Arabs is not all Arabs that want to
live in open sewage and blow things up
is just Palestinians even want to say
holiday no it sighs you several is wrong
Alice billion population is rotten to
the core you went on to say not have
masses
Arab population I say that by poll
numbers they elected Hamas they elected
Hamas they educate their children's in
school that Israel should be obliterated
sir I guess if you want to read Khan you
know honestly the this is a giant waste
of time in the sense that the entire
interview is designed for you to shout
slogans or old things that I've said at
me I don't see how this forwards the
debate you talk about you talk about
undermining the public discourse it
seems to me that's simply going through
and finding lone things that sound bad
out of context and then hitting them
with and then hitting people with them
is a way for you to make a quick buck on
BBC off the fact that I'm popular and no
one has ever heard of you there are not
many box of emitter on the BBC unlike
American Broadcasting mr. Shapiro I get
the point right because your words are
highly designed to produce the consensus
and understanding that the book seems to
want to produce that's my point that you
write about you know judeo-christian
culture and so on but so much of what
you've said in the past would seem to
turn its back on judeo-christian culture
you're lecturing me on judeo-christian
culture after you call the pro-life
position barbaric I just leave a
question and I asked you a question you
failed to answer a single one of mine
frankly I find this whole thing a waste
of time if you want to read the book and
critique the book why don't you read and
critique the book if you want to read if
you want to critique me you can think
whatever you want to be I don't give a
damn what you think of music I've never
heard of you yeah and I've never heard
of you until I brief myself for this but
that's not the issue you have it's an
interesting book but my point is your
book claims he was voted from time to
time your book is called you I've done
so several times and I'm about to do so
again if you would let me just finish
the question you bet that
turning on a slicer on judeo-christian
values yeah this is where are the values
it's turning its back on I you know I'm
not inclined to continue an interview
with a person is badly motivated as you
as an interviewer so I think we're done
here I appreciate your time all right
well we thank you for your time and for
showing that anger is not part of
American political discourse now mr.
Shapiro will say goodbye